Security | IBM Home Think Security Security and identity Adversary simulation Cyber Frontlines: Marco Simioni Threat intelligence X-Force Threat Analysis Report: LATAM baited into the delivery of PureHVNC Melissa Frydrych, Raymond Joseph Alfonso Cybersecurity Cyber Frontlines: Val Shaikh Threat management The Operational Technology Threat Landscape: Insights from IBM X-Force Want to learn more about current cyber threats and operational technology statistics not previously shared in the 2025 Cost of a Data Breach Report? Read on for front-line intelligence from IBM X-Force. David McMillen Security intelligence Security Intelligence Become an expert on fundamental and emerging cybersecurity topics Most popular Data security Cybersecurity Ransomware Cyberattacks Join over 100,000 subscribers! Receive insights, research and expert views on AI, security, automation and data in the Think Newsletter. Subscribe today The Cost of a Data Breach What’s in the 2025 report — and what to know about security Report Cost of a Data Breach Report 2025 Technology Explained 2025 Cost of a Data Breach: AI Risks, Shadow AI, & Solutions X-Force Cyber Frontlines: Mark Hughes Podcast | AI in Action AI to defend against AI-based cybersecurity threats X-Force Cyberattack magnet? Unyielding threats plague the industrial sector On-demand webinar Manage risk in AI deployments: Deep-dive into OWASP Top 10 for LLM Report IBM X-Force 2025 Threat Intelligence Index X-Force In the protobuf: Web browser artifacts using Google's data interchange format On-demand webinar Govern, secure, and monitor AI in one unified experience Explainer What is threat detection and response (TDR)? Explainer What is network security? Explainer What is web security? IBM X-Force Threat management Vulnerability assessment Threat intelligence Discover more in X-Force Threat management Hive0154 drops Toneshell and SnakeDisk Hive0154 wreaks havoc on Singapore and Thailand using a new Toneshell backdoor and SnakeDisk USB worm. Learn More Adversary simulation Cyber Frontlines: Dustin Heywood Threat intelligence QuirkyLoader - A new malware loader delivering infostealers and RATs Raymond Joseph Alfonso Security What being a cop taught me about stopping hackers Ryan Anschutz Threat management Dissecting the CastleBot Malware-as-a-Service operation Golo Mühr Threat intelligence Weaponizing reality: The evolution of deepfake technology Alexis Obeng Adversary simulation A look at the 'resource_prefetch_predictor_origin' table in Chromium browsers Jairo Hibaler News 2025 Cost of a Data Breach Report: Navigating the AI rush without sidelining security Limor Kessem Videos Learn the fundamentals and trending topics in security from our explainer videos View the cloud security playlist 2025 Cost of a Data Breach: AI Risks, Shadow AI, & Solutions Jeff Crume breaks down key findings from the IBM 2025 Cost of a Data Breach report, exploring AI security risks, shadow AI, phishing attacks, and IAM strategies. AI in Cybersecurity Learn how AI acts as a force multiplier to help you address security threats more effectively. What is SOAR? In this video, Jeff "The Security Guy" explains the need to have a strategy AND the right tools for handling security incidents, including so-called "black swan" events. Phishing Explained Security expert Jeff Crume explains the attackers' strategy, whether it's phishing, spearfishing or whaling -- and how to avoid falling for their traps. The anatomy of an att&ck Understand the MITRE ATT&CK in terms of “tactics, techniques and procedures (TTPs)”, and “people, process and technology (PPTs)”, and how to defend against attacks. What Is SIEM? Sort through alerts with Jaqueline Lehmann using a SIEM system to correlate data from multiple sources and find accurate, high-fidelity alerts. Social Engineering - How Bad Guys Hack Users Watch how Jeff Crume, IBM Distinguished Engineer, describes the many methods that bad guy/hackers use that you should know about so you can protect yourself. The power of AI: Security Security AI and automation technologies enable organizations to stay ahead of cyber threats through faster incident detection and response. Never miss an update