APT28 Targets Hospitality Sector, Presents Threat to Travelers « APT28 Targets Hospitality Sector, Presents Threat to Travelers | FireEye Inc 101 captures 11 Aug 2017 - 04 Oct 2025 Nov DEC Jan 02 2016 2017 2018 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Archive Team Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures. Collection: ArchiveBot: The Archive Team Crowdsourced Crawler ArchiveBot is an IRC bot designed to automate the archival of smaller websites (e.g. up to a few hundred thousand URLs). You give it a URL to start at, and it grabs all content under that URL, records it in a WARC, and then uploads that WARC to ArchiveTeam servers for eventual injection into the Internet Archive (or other archive sites). To use ArchiveBot, drop by #archivebot on EFNet. To interact with ArchiveBot, you issue commands by typing it into the channel. Note you will need channel operator permissions in order to issue archiving jobs. The dashboard shows the sites being downloaded currently. There is a dashboard running for the archivebot process at http://www.archivebot.com. ArchiveBot's source code can be found at https://github.com/ArchiveTeam/ArchiveBot. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20171202185937/https://www.fireeye.com/blog/threat-research/2017/08/apt28-targets-hospitality-sector.html Language My preferred language: English (English)French (Français)German (Deutsch)Japanese (日本語)Korean (한국어)More languages Search Search FireEye.com Go Products Services Solutions Partners Support Resources Company To give you the best possible experience, this site uses cookies.  Find out more on how we use cookies.Accept Decline Home FireEye Blogs Threat Research Blog APT28 Targets Hospitality Sector, Presents Threat ... APT28 Targets Hospitality Sector, Presents Threat to Travelers August 11, 2017 | by Lindsay Smith, Ben Read | Threat Research FireEye has moderate confidence that a campaign targeting the hospitality sector is attributed to Russian actor APT28. We believe this activity, which dates back to at least July 2017, was intended to target travelers to hotels throughout Europe and the Middle East. The actor has used several notable techniques in these incidents such as sniffing passwords from Wi-Fi traffic, poisoning the NetBIOS Name Service, and spreading laterally via the EternalBlue exploit. APT28 Uses Malicious Document to Target Hospitality Industry FireEye has uncovered a malicious document sent in spear phishing emails to multiple companies in the hospitality industry, including hotels in at least seven European countries and one Middle Eastern country in early July. Successful execution of the macro within the malicious document results in the installation of APT28’s signature GAMEFISH malware. The malicious document – Hotel_Reservation_Form.doc (MD5: 9b10685b774a783eabfecdb6119a8aa3), as seen in Figure 1 – contains a macro that base64 decodes a dropper that then deploys APT28’s signature GAMEFISH malware (MD5: 1421419d1be31f1f9ea60e8ed87277db), which uses mvband.net and mvtband.net as command and control (C2) domains. Figure 1: Hotel_Reservation_Form.doc (MD5: 9b10685b774a783eabfecdb6119a8aa3) APT28 Uses Novel Techniques to Move Laterally and Potentially Target Travelers APT28 is using novel techniques involving the EternalBlue exploit and the open source tool Responder to spread laterally through networks and likely target travelers. Once inside the network of a hospitality company, APT28 sought out machines that controlled both guest and internal Wi-Fi networks. No guest credentials were observed being stolen at the compromised hotels; however, in a separate incident that occurred in Fall 2016, APT28 gained initial access to a victim’s network via credentials likely stolen from a hotel Wi-Fi network. Upon gaining access to the machines connected to corporate and guest Wi-Fi networks, APT28 deployed Responder. Responder facilitates NetBIOS Name Service (NBT-NS) poisoning. This technique listens for NBT-NS (UDP/137) broadcasts from victim computers attempting to connect to network resources. Once received, Responder masquerades as the sought-out resource and causes the victim computer to send the username and hashed password to the attacker-controlled machine. APT28 used this technique to steal usernames and hashed passwords that allowed escalation of privileges in the victim network. To spread through the hospitality company’s network, APT28 used a version of the EternalBlue SMB exploit. This was combined with the heavy use of py2exe to compile Python scripts. This is the first time we have seen APT28 incorporate this exploit into their intrusions. In the 2016 incident, the victim was compromised after connecting to a hotel Wi-Fi network. Twelve hours after the victim initially connected to the publicly available Wi-Fi network, APT28 logged into the machine with stolen credentials. These 12 hours could have been used to crack a hashed password offline. After successfully accessing the machine, the attacker deployed tools on the machine, spread laterally through the victim's network, and accessed the victim's OWA account. The login originated from a computer on the same subnet, indicating that the attacker machine was physically close to the victim and on the same Wi-Fi network. We cannot confirm how the initial credentials were stolen in the 2016 incident; however, later in the intrusion, Responder was deployed. Since this tool allows an attacker to sniff passwords from network traffic, it could have been used on the hotel Wi-Fi network to obtain a user’s credentials. Long-Standing Threats to Travelers Cyber espionage activity against the hospitality industry is typically focused on collecting information on or from hotel guests of interest rather than on the hotel industry itself, though actors may also collect information on the hotel as a means of facilitating operations. Business and government personnel who are traveling, especially in a foreign country, often rely on systems to conduct business other than those at their home office, and may be unfamiliar with threats posed while abroad. APT28 isn’t the only group targeting travelers. South Korea-nexus Fallout Team (aka Darkhotel) has used spoofed software updates on infected Wi-Fi networks in Asian hotels, and Duqu 2.0 malware has been found on the networks of European hotels used by participants in the Iranian nuclear negotiations. Additionally, open sources have reported for several years that in Russia and China, high-profile hotel guests may expect their hotel rooms to be accessed and their laptops and other electronic devices accessed. Outlook and Implications These incidents show a novel infection vector being used by APT28. The group is leveraging less secure hotel Wi-Fi networks to steal credentials and a NetBIOS Name Service poisoning utility to escalate privileges. APT28’s already wide-ranging capabilities and tactics are continuing to grow and refine as the group expands its infection vectors. Travelers must be aware of the threats posed when traveling – especially to foreign countries – and take extra precautions to secure their systems and data. Publicly accessible Wi-Fi networks present a significant threat and should be avoided whenever possible. Additional technical information and details are available to FireEye iSIGHT Intelligence customers through our portal. This entry was posted on Fri Aug 11 09:00:00 EDT 2017 and filed under Threat Research, Ben Read, Targeted Attacks, Spear Phishing, Lindsay Smith, and APT. Sign up for email updatesGet information and insight on today's advanced threats from the leader in advanced threat prevention. Stay Connected LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Google+ YouTube Podcast Contact Us +1 888-227-2721 Cyber Threat Map Company About FireEye Customer Stories Careers Partners Investor Relations Supplier Documents News & Events Newsroom Press Releases Webinars Events Blogs Communication Preferences Technical Support Incident? Report Security Issue Contact Support Customer Portal Communities Documentation Portal Cyber Threat Map Copyright © 2017 FireEye, Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy & Cookies Policy | Privacy Shield | Legal Documentation Share Email