 
 
 
 
 
 HOW FIN7 ATTACKED AND STOLE DATA 
Sophisticated Social Engineering: Phishing & Calling 
FIN7 typically initiate d its cyberattacks by 
delivering a “phishing” email to a company 
employee.  Each email included an attached file, often an innocuous-appear ing Microsoft Word 
document, with embedded malware.  The text within the email simulated a legitimate business-related message in order to lead the recipient employee to open the attachment and unwittingly activate the malware that would infect the computer.  For example, when targeting a hotel 
chain, the sender of the phishing email might claim to be inter ested in making a reservation with 
details enclosed in the attachme nt.  When targeting a restaurant, the phishing email might refer to 
placing a large catering order or voice a complaint about prior  service or food quality, further 
described in an attachment.  Examples of phishing emails deploy ed by FIN7 are below. 
In many cases, FIN7 would accompany the phishing emails with a telephone call to the 
victim company employee about the same topic, which was intende d to legitimize the phishing 
email.  The caller often directe d the employee to the recently sent phishing email to further 
entice the employee to open the a ttached file and activate the malware.  
Network Intrusion: Contr ol & Data Exfiltration 
Once infected, the compromised victim computer connected to one of FIN7’s command and control servers 
located throughout the world.  Through a specially designed control panel, FIN7 could download a wide array of additional malware to the  victim computer, remotely 
send commands and receive data, and move laterally through the company’s netw ork.  Among other tools, 
FIN7 incorporated and adapted the notorious Carbanak malware, which was used by other cybercriminals in a massive transnational att ack on the banking industry.  
FIN7’s malware allowed its members to conduct surveillance on c ompany employees, including 
taking screen shots and even vide o recordings of desktop activi ty, enabling them to secretly steal 
credentials and other network information.  FIN7 then used its unauthorized access to the 
victim’s computer system to locat e and extract various information and property of value, such 
as financial information and caches of customer payment card da ta.  
FIN7 most commonly focused on fas t-food and casual dining resta urants, hotels, casinos, 
and businesses with a high frequency of point-of-sale transactions, including businesses with 
dozens of locations operating in Western Washington.  With thes e and other victims, FIN7 

---PAGE_BREAK---
 
 
 
 
 
  
 sought to steal credit, debit, a nd in some cases gift card data , used during legitimate customer 
purchases. 
Selling Stolen Cards  
Since 2015, FIN7 successfully stole data for more than 16 
million payment cards, many of which have been offered for sale through online underground marketplaces for stolen data.  The purchasers could then use th e stolen card numbers to make 
unauthorized charges on account s belonging to unsuspecting 
cardholders. Investigators ha ve observed typical retail 
purchases as well as the purchase of gift cards. 
Who is FIN7? 
 FIN7 is one of the most sophisticated and aggressive malware schemes in recent times, consisting of dozens of talented hackers located overseas. FIN7 uses an arsenal of constantly evolving malware tools and hacking techniques, and controls infecte d computers through a 
complex web of servers located throughout the world. The masterminds behind the criminal enterprise created a fake computer security 
business called Combi Security, w hich they used to recruit new members and to add a thin veil 
of legitimacy to the hacking scheme. However, there was nothing  legitimate about the scores of 
attacks FIN7 launched against over 100 unsuspecting victims. 

---PAGE_BREAK---
 

---PAGE_BREAK---
